.TH SENSOR-DS18B20 1 "October 2025" "sensor-ds18b20 1.0" "WildlifeSystems"
.SH NAME
sensor-ds18b20 \- read DS18B20 1-Wire temperature sensors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sensor-ds18b20
[\fBidentify\fR|\fBlist\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sensor-ds18b20
reads temperature data from DS18B20 1-Wire temperature sensors connected to the system.
The command scans for all DS18B20 sensors (device ID starting with 28-) on the 1-Wire bus
and outputs their readings in JSON format compatible with the WildlifeSystems sensor-control framework.
.PP
The 1-Wire interface must be enabled in the Raspberry Pi configuration (typically via
dtoverlay=w1-gpio in /boot/config.txt or /boot/firmware/config.txt) before sensors can be detected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B identify
Returns exit code 60 to identify this sensor type to the WildlifeSystems framework.
.TP
.B list
Lists the measurement types supported by this sensor. For DS18B20, this outputs "temperature".
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
When run without arguments, the command outputs a JSON array containing sensor readings.
Each sensor reading includes:
.PP
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
sensor: The sensor type ("ds18b20")
.IP \(bu 2
measures: The measurement type ("temperature")
.IP \(bu 2
unit: The unit of measurement ("Celsius")
.IP \(bu 2
value: The temperature reading in degrees Celsius
.IP \(bu 2
sensor_id: The unique 1-Wire device ID
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Read all connected DS18B20 sensors:
.B sensor-ds18b20
.TP
List supported measurements:
.B sensor-ds18b20 list
.TP
Identify sensor type (for sensor-control integration):
.B sensor-ds18b20 identify
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /sys/bus/w1/devices/28-*/w1_slave
1-Wire device interface files where temperature readings are obtained.
.TP
.I /boot/config.txt
or
.I /boot/firmware/config.txt
Raspberry Pi configuration file where 1-Wire interface is enabled.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 60
Returned when called with 'identify' option
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sensor-control (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Ed Baker <ed@ebaker.me.uk>
.SH PROJECT
Part of the WildlifeSystems project. For more information, visit:
.br
https://wildlife.systems
.br
https://docs.wildlife.systems
